So, the rate of diffusion
equals something...
times the square root
of something–
[ Sighs ]
I give up.
Aw, so close!
Shut up!
Don’t worry.
You’ll get it.
You know, a lot of
famous scientists are women.
They’re fat though, right?
Come on, Alex.
It’s time for your cello lesson.
How’s the tutoring
going?
Are you familiar with the term
"throwing good money
after bad"?
Are you familiar with the term
"Dunphy, party of one"?
Because you will be.
- Girls.
- Haley’s coming along
really well, Ms. Dunphy.
Good! The key is to take a lot
of little breaks...
so you don’t get frustrated
and want to quit.
Got it.
I was talking
to David.
Come on, sweetie.
I’m just saying,
she’s never
gonna get a job.
And how do we know the right
Middle Eastern businessman...
wouldn’t treat her great?
I left my shopping list
inside.
For the record, we thought
she could live with you.
Like I’m gonna tell any of you
where I live.
Oh.
Haley!
What? We only do this
when I get one right.
Mama should be here by now.
I wonder what’s keeping her?
Cam, that depends.
Did she take her jalopy
or one of them new
fancy flyin’ machines?
Missouri’s more cosmopolitan
than you give it credit for.
It’s got a very vibrant
cowboy poetry scene.
Not sure you’re making
the point that you think.
- [ Doorbell Rings ]
- That’s her. Come on.
Look alive. Look alive.
Mama!
My baby!
Oh, little boomer!
Oh, puppy kiss!
[ Kissing ]
Mitchell,
get over here!
Oh! Hey, Barb!
My baby’s baby!
Ohh! Oh-ho-ho!
Oh, yeah!
[ Giggling ]
Well, I don’t
wanna overstate this,
but my mom
is the greatest woman
that ever lived.
Cam loves his mom.
She raised four kids,
two barns
and a whole lotta hell.
That sounds like
a country song.
And that song would be
called "The Greatest Woman
That Ever Lived."
Cam loves his mom.
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
From the minute I met Barb
she has been open...
and loving and caring.
Oh, I have missed
these shoulders.
Ohh– Aaah!
If I had one complaint,
and I do,
it’s the...
inappropriate
putting of her hands
on my body.
Hey, Barb.
Got you the cranberries
you wanted for the stuffing.
Oh, bless your heart.
Mmm-mmm-mmm!
Let me get in there
and help ya.
Ohh. Ohh! Ohh!
And a horsie bite!
Ohh! [ Chuckles ]
[ TV: Reporter, Indistinct ]
This is how I like
to cuddle.
[ Chuckles ]
It’s-It’s been going on
a long time.
Jay, you wanna go
to the mall with me?
No, actually, my stomach’s
a little funny today.
Oh, I am so sorry, papi.
Maybe we’d stop first
at the crib store...
and you lay down and I buy you
a little dress, hmm?
Gloria thinks Americans
are babies.
Well, in Colombia we couldn’t
go run to the hospital
for every little sniffle...
or dislocated shoulder.
[ Grunts ]
[ Groans ]
[ Crunch ]
[ Panting ]
Okay, good.
5-6. I serve, huh?
[ Ball Bouncing ]
Jay,
what are your symptoms?
Nausea? Bloating?
What did I say about getting off
that crazy doctor Web site?
I’m just worried
about Jay.
Stomach pains can mean
a lot of things:
intestinal blockage–
- Do you have a fever?
- Stop it!
Manny, he’s fine.
Tell him you’re
fine.
I’m fine.
Okay, good. Get in the car.
Uh, home fine,
not mall fine.
Jay, you know what happens
when I shop angry.
I’ll clear a space.
Mmm.
I’m not loving your color.
Go play.
Don’t be a hero.
So, dumb guys
go for dumb girls...
and smart guys
go for dumb girls?
- What do the smart girls get?
- Cats, mostly.
So, Haley, how long
have I been paying this guy
to make out with you?
Uh, about a week.
First it was just
to shut him up, but now
I’m starting to like him.
If you really like him
though, you have to
break up with Dylan.
What? No!
Believe me.
And it’s best for everybody
if you just do it quickly.
I can’t believe
we’re having this conversation.
He’s like part of the family.
Trust me.
It’s the right thing to do.
[ Whispers ]
Just end it.
Okay, but be gentle.
Boys are surprisingly sensitive
at that age.
- Water polo girl story.
- Yes, I’m gonna tell
the water polo girl story!
’Cause it hurt!
Mmm.
[ Clears Throat ]
Okay, so I’m working
in the principal’s office.
She walks in, hair all silver
from the chlorine–
[ Inhales ]
tells me she wants
her varsity jacket back.
I tear up a little.
Then I tear up a lot.
I’m begging, I’m begging.
At some point I realize
I’m sitting on the button to
the high school intercom system.
Yuk it up, ladies.
Wasn’t funny then.
Is not funny now.
It was traumatic, Haley.
[ Inhales ]
Don’t do Dylan like
Linda "The Cannon" Concannon
did me.
Honey,
that was a long time ago.
I loved her.
Okay.
I know.
You know what?
Maybe I’ll call Dylan
after he talks to Haley.
He’s gonna need someone
to lean on.
That someone should not be
his ex-girlfriend’s father.
Honey, when Dylan
is out of her life,
he should be out of ours.
[ Whispering ]
You’ve always hated Dylan.
I have not always hated Dylan.
I have always thought
that Haley could do better.
[ Whispering ]
Plus, the new boyfriend
is so smart.
It’s done.
We broke up.
- What?
- I texted Dylan.
It’s over.
[ Phone Vibrating ]
Bet that’s him.
Yep.
Sad face emoticon!
You can feel the hurt
through the phone.
Cam’s mom spent
half of dinner with
her hands all over me.
It was like she was blind
and wanted to know
what my thighs looked like.
Are you sure?
Are you really the best judge
of this kind of thing?
You’ve had boundary issues
since you were a kid.
I have not!
Okay. Sorry.
My mistake.
Must be Cam’s mom.
Her issues.
What are you doing?
Nothing.
Just getting a spoon.
Stop it.
Is it bothering you?
Yes, it is.
Hey, Mitchell.
Claire, stop it!
Mitchell, Mitchell, Mitchell.
Force field!
[ Laughing ]
That never stops
being fun.
Good. Listen, this is–
this is not
in my head, Claire.
And it’s actually
getting worse.
- What does Cam say?
- Well, he never
seems to notice.
And I certainly can’t
talk to him about it,
because God forbid
I say anything negative
about his mom.
One time I added salt
to her casserole,
and he went into the garage
and punched the car.
Okay, Mitchell,
if this is happening,
and I’m pretty sure it isn’t–
Thank you.
Supportive.
then you need Cam to see
his mom feeling you up...
and then make Cam
deal with it.
Eeeww.
[ Doorbell Rings ]
Think about it.
Hi, Dylan.
Hi, Mrs. Dunphy.
Mmm.
Or I guess
now that Haley and I broke up,
I should call you Claire.
I actually think we’re gonna
stick with Mrs. Dunphy.
Come on in. How you doing?
Not so good.
Hmm.
I mean, everywhere I look
I see her face.
Hmm.
[ Groans ]
To be fair, Dylan,
that is a family portrait.
I gotta go get some of
my stuff. Is that cool?
Oh, sure. Yeah.
[ Sobs ]
There she is again.
[ Sobbing ]
Don’t look on the bookshelf.
You’re just gonna–
[ Screaming, Sobbing ]
Hey, kid, you got a minute?
I need the name
of that medical Web site.
Can this wait until I’m home?
I’m having the round of my life.
I’ve been thinking I might
have a couple of those– those
symptoms you were talking about.
Oh. I see.
You might as well play through.
It’s gonna be a while.
I’m probably wrong,
but I just wanna make sure.
- Is that Manny?
- Work.
- Hmm.
- So tell ’em I’ll get that
order out this afternoon, huh?
Did she buy that?
Because it sounded fake
on this end.
I’ll talk to you later, Tom.
[ Beeps ]
Tom.
Mmm.
Dylan!
Aw, Dylan, Dylan,
Dylan, Dylan.
Hey, Mr. Dunphy.
Hey, now that you guys
are broken up, you can
call me whatever you want.
Phil, Vitamin P,
P-Daddy.
- Okay, Phil.
- Okay.
I’m gonna miss that bad boy.
Might have to get my own ax.
Sometimes I come in here
and noodle on it.
Actually, I’ve been writing
a little song of my own.
Might be able
to pluck out a few–
You know, I keep on hoping
that this is just a dream,
that Haley and I
didn’t really break up.
But it’s not a dream.
Unless the whole thing
was a dream and we never even
dated in the first place.
Weird. This is kinda
what my song’s about.
Yeah, weird.
Hey. I know this is tough,
but you’re gonna be fine.
You know,
I was a lot like you
in high school.
Except my hair was shorter
and my guitar was a flute.
Well, if you want your own
guitar, I mean, we could
go out and pick you one.
Oh, I don’t know
if that’s such a good idea.
Yeah.
Yeah, totally.
Well, I guess
I’ll get going...
so... I can...
well, be alone forever.
Uh, what–
what the hell.
Yeah!
Let’s go guitar shopping.
Awesome!
Uh, do me a favor.
Don’t tell Mrs. Dunphy.
Yeah. Definitely.
You got it.
All right.
Well, I guess
I’ll see ya.
Okay.
Y– You, uh–
[ Window Slides ]
You can go ahead and exit
through the front door.
Oh, right.
Habit.
[ Window Slides ]
- My old yearbooks!
- I saved ’em all.
Ohh!
[ Chuckles ]
Oh, look.
What?
"You’re the cutest boy
in school. We’re gonna have
an awesome summer.
Smooches, Brenda."
[ Both Laughing ]
Oh, Brenda, you’re about to
have the most confusing summer
of your life.
[ Chuckles ]
Hey, guys!
Hi!
Oh,
there’s Mitchell.
My little corn silk!
[ Laughing ]
Ahh– Ohh!
Oh, Barb, oh, you are
such a good hugger.
Well, gosh.
Isn’t she the best hugger?
[ Chuckles ]
[ Sighs ]
Oh, thank you.
Oh, and look what
I got you, Barb.
What’s tha– Oh!
[ Together ]
Scratchers!
Thank you.
Mmm!
[ Kettle Whistling ]
Nice!
A lot of ’em.
Oh, that’s your tea.
I’m gonna get your tea.
Thanks, honey.
Well, I need a quarter.
Oh.
Let me have
that quarter.
Oh. Wow, yeah.
Feel free
to fish around in there.
Cam? Cam!
I’d like a cup too, please.
Just a second.
Oh, Barb, you know what?
I strained myself
so bad today.
Oh.
Well,
what’s hurtin’ on you?
It’s this area
between my lower back
and upper thigh.
Sounds
like your fanny.
It’s my fanny.
It’s really knotted up.
Well, you need someone
to work on that.
Oh, I would love that.
It’s really seized up.
Just put your fingers
all over my– my fanny.
Your magic fingers.
- Barb.
- Mama, your tea.
Mitchell.
Thanks, sweetie.
See you in the room
for a minute? Thank you.
- It’s very hot.
Don’t burn your tongue.
- All right, honey.
Okay, I am not gonna cry,
but I wanna know why, Mitchell–
why you are
presenting to my mother
like a baboon.
I wanted you to see her
fondling me.
So you do
want me to cry.
No, no, Cam.
She’s always touching me
inappropriately,
and you never seem to notice.
Show me, Mitchell.
Show me on Lily’s doll
where my mother
is touching you.
Look, I know you don’t want
to hear this, but she’s handsy
and it makes me uncomfortable.
Oh, my God.
I know what this is.
You’re just not used to
having a mother
that shows affection.
Do not make this
about my mother.
I didn’t.
But it is normal
for a mother
to be physical,
and it is not strange...
for an occasional hug
or a little pat on the fanny.
Okay, these aren’t pats, Cam.
No.
She squeezes and lingers!
Show me
where she squeezes
and lingers.
[ Sighs ]
Cam, put the doll down.
I don’t know if this
is just sexual or Crazytown,
but your mother cannot
keep her hands off of me
and it’s creeping me out.
No. Oh–
B-Barb.
[ Stammering ] I’m sorry.
[ Gasping, Whimpering ]
Let me show you
where you stabbed my mama.
[ Squeak ]
Thanks for helping me
pick out my ax.
You were so right.
The one with two necks
would have been overkill.
If you want,
you can have some of that.
Diet starts tomorrow!
Don’t tell Mrs. Dunphy
about this either.
I, uh– I– I always wanted
to go to this place with Haley,
but she said it looked stupid.
She’s a girl
with strong opinions,
like her mother.
Claire hates
this new sweatshirt
I bought.
She says it looks like something
a girl would wear to the beach.
Yeah, it does.
But I wear it anyway.
See? I figure, why be alive
if you can’t do the things
you’re passionate about?
What are you
passionate about, Dylan?
Uh, I always wanted
to drive to Graceland.
Fun!
What else?
I know a guy who can
get me a pet bobcat.
Yeah– No, you don’t really
know what they’re gonna do.
The point is,
you got your whole life
ahead of you.
Enjoy being single.
I really oughta
play that song for you.
This is all in there.
- Yeah!
- Awesome!
Be right back.
Hey, hey, come here.
Is that guy over there
with someone?
Uh-huh.
-Could you tell if there was
anything going on between them?
-I don’t know.
They were talking about
taking a trip
to Graceland together.
He just wants to go
’cause he thinks
it’s an amusement park!
[ Huffs ]
I gotta tell you,
this is looking more and more
like diverticulitis.
Do they say how to treat it,
like a heating pad or–
[ Groans ] There it is again!
Describe the pain.
It’s like
I’m being stabbed.
But also like
I ate a bad scallop...
that’s stabbing me
from the inside.
That’s colorful,
but there’s no box for that.
[ Gloria ]
What are you guys
looking at?
Girls!
Huffington Post!
Uh, girls.
Manny, let me
see that screen.
What did I tell you?
It’s not his fault.
I asked him to look.
I’m starting to think
I have a serious problem here.
Yes, you do! That computer!
You read it there,
you think it here,
you feel it here.
You wanna feel better?
There.
You’re cured!
Give me 15 minutes.
Then tell Florence Nightingale
I went to the hospital.
♪♪ [ Plays Note ]
♪♪ [ Vocalizing ]
- ♪♪ [ Falsetto ]
- [ Door Slams ]
I’m gonna kill her!
I’m gonna kill him!
- I’m gonna kill
both of them!
- What happened?
Dylan has
a new girlfriend!
- When did that happen?
- Who cares?
I’m just surprised
he didn’t say anything...
to you.
He’s not answering my texts.
How could he do this to me?
Uh, honey, you were
the one who broke up with him.
I didn’t think he was gonna
find someone so fast.
- Maybe he’s better
than I thought.
- No, he’s not.
What?
No, he’s not better.
No. You know who’s better?
David. David the tutor.
Smart-smart David?
[ Doorbell Rings ]
Maybe that’s him right now.
Do you want the house
to yourself?
For just a little while?
[ Sighs ]
I got your texts.
You swore a lot.
- Who is she?
- Who is who?
Your new girlfriend.
I need her name and address
so I can mess her up.
I don’t have
a new girlfriend.
Don’t play dumb, Dylan.
I’m not.
I’m never
playing dumb.
I saw you
at that stupid restaurant,
sharing a sundae,
with her ugly sweatshirt
on the chair.
[ Phone Ringing ]
Oh, is that the skank?
No. No, there’s–
there’s no skank.
Well, then why aren’t you
answering it?
[ Phone Beeps ]
Because
I wanna talk to you.
Well, I wanna talk to her.
I’m gonna call her back
and tell her to keep her hands
off of what belongs to me.
[ Sighs ]
Haley–
[ Phone Ringing ]
Hello?
Dad?
Haley?
Oh, my God.
The sweatshirt.
That was you with Dylan?
Wait, you’re
the other girl?
No!
We’re just friends.
Phil–
Shh!
Okay, put the phone down.
What is going on?
He needed someone
to talk to.
He took the breakup
pretty hard.
But–
You did?
[ Claire Groans ]
Yeah. I kept on hoping
we’d get back together.
Thinking of you
with someone else just–
just drove me crazy.
Oh, me too, baby.
But then your dad
helped me figure out
maybe it’s best if we’re apart.
[ Whispers ]
Nice.
I mean–
I think I just need
a little time to date Dylan.
Mm-hmm.
And I mean me,
not another guy named Dylan.
So, we’re still
broken up?
Yeah, I think so.
Well, okay.
Um,
I don’t–
I’ll see you.
Yeah.
Um–
Bye!
Are you okay, baby?
Do you need
another pillow?
I know you think
this is nothing, but he did
say it could be an ulcer.
He also said
it could be gas.
Do you want me to burp you?
Come here. Come here.
Dollars to doughnuts
it’s diverticulitis.
Actually, it’s not.
Aha!
You have acute appendicitis.
We need to get you
into surgery right away.
Emergency surgery.
I told you it was something.
Aha!
That can’t be right.
You have to check again.
The tests are conclusive.
Everything will be all right,
Mr. Pritchett. Let’s go.
No, Jay! If that’s true,
then I’m the worst wife
in the whole wide world!
I made you suffer
for two whole days!
Honey, it’s okay.
No, it’s not okay!
Why? Why do I always
almost kill my husbands?
And I wanna hear this story
some time, but I’m sorta
counting down to a rupture here!
No! You can’t go
without forgiving me!
What if you die in there?
What do I do without you?
I forgive you!
But nobody dies
of an appendectomy.
True.
It’s usually the anesthesia
that gets you.
You’re over 60, right?
I will never
forget you, Jay!
Could you go back
to not caring, please?
Mitchell, it’s Barb.
Oh.
Barb, I’m so sorry.
Well, no, h-honey, you hush.
Look, I–
I’ve been thinking
about what I heard,
and... maybe I do
touch you too much.
And I could say
it’s ’cause we’re family,
but, you know,
I don’t know.
I guess I have been
having some fun with you,
and I–
I-I-I thought
that it was harmless,
but I would never want
to make you uncomfortable.
Barb,
it’s my fault too.
So we’re okay?
Yes!
Yes, of course.
Thank God.
Because I couldn’t
live with myself...
if things stayed weird
between us.
Uh, Cam! Cam!
What is it?
Well, we got it
all worked out, sweetie!
Oh, great!
Let me get my camera.
Okay, that’s not
necessary, h– No!
From now on,
if I go too far,
please, you just
tell me about it.
Okay.
What is th– Oh!
[ Chuckles ]
Almost lost my bracelet.
Oh, wait a minute!
And there
it is. Okay.
[ Laughing ]
Oh, dang it!
I’ll get it.
Oh, no. I saw
where it fell, honey.
Force field! Force field!
[ Laughing ]
[ Mitchell Whimpers ]
What’s going on?
I lost my bracelet
in here.
Mama!
Listen, I think this might be
one of those situations...
where Mitchell feels like
you’re crossing a boundary.
Really?
Yeah.
- This too?
- Yeah.
Well.
I–
I’ve gotta have
a good, long think
about how I conduct myself.
I’m truly sorry,
Mitchell.
It’s okay.
Well, let’s take
one quick picture–
[ Cameron ] Yeah.
and we’ll get out of his way.
Absolutely.
Scooch together there.
It’s all right.
[ Cameron ]
Okay.
[ Beeps ]
Hey.
I miss him.
Yeah.
He was your first
real boyfriend.
I keep expecting him
to show up.
He used to come by at night
and I’d sneak out to see him.
Yeah, I know.
You knew?
His car’s 30 years old
and doesn’t have a muffler.
And he honked.
I loved that car.
I rode in it
to the guitar store.
I felt like I was flying.
I know it hurts now,
sweetheart, but...
that’s how you know
it was a relationship
worth having.
[ Sniffles ]
Oh.
Thanks, Dad.
[ Car Departs ]
So, Dylan,
are you lovin’ Graceland?
Yeah, that’s true.
Probably would be cooler
if they had roller coasters.
Still, it’s fun to see
where the King lived, huh?
No. No, no, no.
That’s just an expression.
America doesn’t
have a king.
Yeah.
[ Laughs ]
Oh, sure. Uh-huh.
When?
Well, isn’t that
always the case, huh?
So, did you get a chance to
listen to that song I sent you?
No? You got seven minutes?